Definition: The general boundary G, with respect to hypothesis space H and training
data D, is the set of maximally general members of H consistent with D.

G = {g E HIConsistent(g, D) A (-3gf E H)[(gf >, g) A Consistent(gt, D)]]

Definition: The specific boundary S, with respect to hypothesis space H and training
data D, is the set of minimally general (i.e., maximally specific) members of H
consistent with D.

S rn {s E H(Consistent(s, D) A (-3s' E H)[(s >, sf) A Consistent(st, D)]) 

As long as the sets G and S are well defined (see Exercise 2.7), they completely specify the version space. In particular, we can show that the version space
is precisely the set of hypotheses contained in G, plus those contained in S, plus
those that lie between G and S in the partially ordered hypothesis space. This is
stated precisely in Theorem 2.1.

Theorem 2.1. Version space representation theorem. Let X be an arbitrary set
of instances and let H be a set of boolean-valued hypotheses defined over X. Let
c : X + {O, 1) be an arbitrary target concept defined over X, and let D be an
arbitrary set of training examples {(x, c(x))). For all X, H, c, and D such that S and
G are well defined,

Proof. To prove the theorem it suffices to show that (1) every h satisfying the righthand side of the above expression is in VSH,~ and (2) every member of VSH,~
satisfies the right-hand side of the expression. To show (1) let g be an arbitrary
member of G, s be an arbitrary member of S, and h be an arbitrary member of H,
such that g 2, h 2, s. Then by the definition of S, s must be satisfied by all positive
examples in D. Because h 2, s, h must also be satisfied by all positive examples in
D. Similarly, by the definition of G, g cannot be satisfied by any negative example
in D, and because g 2, h, h cannot be satisfied by any negative example in D.
Because h is satisfied by all positive examples in D and by no negative examples
in D, h is consistent with D, and therefore h is a member of VSH,~. This proves
step (1). The argument for (2) is a bit more complex. It can be proven by assuming
some h in VSH,~ that does not satisfy the right-hand side of the expression, then
showing that this leads to an inconsistency.
